Title=Short Story: The house across
Date=2022-10-11
Order=1

“Nothing! as usual” Lara proclaimed irritably, “I am telling you I saw something there” she continued, deciding not to argue with her over this like we had been doing since past few weeks I simply nodded. The house in question was identical to ours, with two floors and a similar construction. Lara, my wife, had claimed to see figures standing behind the windows at odd hours, however the house across had been abandoned as long as I remembered moving into this place, so I just assumed it must’ve been her imagination.

As the clock struck 2 I lay awoke on my bed staring at the ceiling, not feeling asleep I made my way to the kitchen to grab something to munch, I glimpsed at the house across and the darkness within stared back at me, something about the greatly unnerved me and I decided to make my way back to the bedroom.

The next day went normally, I woke up, got dressed for work, and made my way to my car as my wife waved at me. It was around 9 when I found myself standing in front of my house after a long day. I just wanted to slump on my couch. Fumbling with the keys as I unlocked the front I was met with darkness, as I turned the lights on I saw, Lara stood motionless in middle of the living room smiling at my arrival her wild gaze staring at me intently, I smiled at her nervously and made my way into the bedroom to get a change of clothes — something was off about my room just little things that weren’t right. The lamp wasn’t placed in its usual place, the bed sheets were a color Lara would never use and the clothes — I didn’t remember buying a beige T-shirt, I received a text — it was from Lara, “where are you? Working late today daniel?” I looked at the window across and behind the curtains saw my wife — my house…this was not my house...this was the house across, I shakily opened the bedroom door and saw Lara standing in the middle of the corridor, smiling madely as her, no, it's skin slowly started to peel off.
