Title=Short story: Life as It Is
Date=2022-07-07
Order=1

It was a pleasent evening, it had just rained, the city was bustling with activity on that damp sunday evening, a cool humid breeze darted around the metropolitan. A perfect opportunity to walk down this hustle-bustle and observe the organized chaos we call urban life.

I walked on the damp sidewalk, just taking in the scene around me. On the distance I saw skyscrapers
plastered across the horizon. A frenzy of cars, shouts and honks lay upon the downtown road to the
right, As I walked down the footpath I came across a Bookshop shelves were lined with various
novels, boasting colorful covers and titles of sorrow and joy. I continued down my path, coming
across a cafe, "Mick's cafe" it said in bold, the scent of freshly brewed coffee and baked bread
intruded my nose, I looked inside through one of many windows, behind which i saw a waiter getting
yelled at for what I reasoned to be a spilt cup of coffee, a young couple chatting away, a mid-aged
man typing away at his laptop his eyes glued on the screen and a woman who seemed to be in her 30s
just enjoying her cup of coffee alongside her book, her eyes met mine as she looked up and she
smiled, so I answered with my own.

I then continued again, coming across an oddity that stopped me in my tracks; It was a drape, a
curtain that extended to the sky, it was the same shade as the evening sky itself, I went towards
the "curtain" as I looked closely I realzied it might've not been a curtain, but rather something
behind the brick walls of the cafe and the fancy restaurant that the "curtain" was located in
between of, it was about a metre in width, I called out to a young woman passing by and asked her to
check the oddity out, but she just nodded with her eyes glued to her phone, "Okay, let's try another
one", I repated the same ritual with an old couple walking down the street, this time they just
looked at me funny and continued, slightly unnerved by this, I decided to do my own investigation,
it looked oddly similar to a stage backdrop, behind all cardboard walls, buildings, people there
lies a curtain, a black curtain, designed to fade in with the artificial sky, used as a neutral
support for all the buildings not directly important to the main character in a play. It was then
the reality of what I had just done sunk in, I quickly took a step back, fear and regret starting to
build up, I glanced around to see if they were coming, *Had I broken my character?*, *Will I be
removed?* *What happens next?* I continued down my path, trying to forget what I had done, I went
back to observing the people, the characters of the play, the play we call life.
